{% include navbar.html %}

## Notes 5.1, 5.2, and actions
### 5.1 Beneficial and Harmful Effects
* Technology can be used to help but also hurt people
* Accelerometer:
  * Automobile industry drove price down
  * Used for airbag deployment and lateral movement detection
* Quadcopter “brain”
* Multirotor
  * Benefit - deliveries, finding lost people, aerial photography
  * Harmful - flying in unregulated zones is illegal and dangerous
* Wii controller
  * Benefit - gets people active with videogames
  * Harmful - Broken TV’s and injuries
* 3D Printers
  * Open-source software for computer and printer
  * Can make organs/prosthetics, houses, shoes
* Internet
  * People spend more time on internet than sleeping
  * Sleep deprivation, depression, anxiety, impulsivity, dopamine feedback loops
* Microtransactions
  * “Free” Games/Apps
  * Cosmetics, paywall to functionality, pay-to-win

5.1 Actions:
* Online chat like Discord
  * Benefit - Easy communication between people
  * Harm - Limits real world interactions and can lead to cyberbullying
* Video Games
  * Benefit - Allows people to have fun with friends and destress
  * Can destract one of grades and other important things in life
* YouTube
  * Benefit - Can learn off of the platform and find entertainment
  * Harm - Can act as a distraction and create toxic interactions

* Dopamine issues are present and things like YouTube and social media impact my personal study and success in highschool by distracting me and taking away time for productive work. There are also things like Discord which allow me to talk to friends and distract me from getting homework done. I get dopamine out of these things and always want to do them even if it hurts my school performance.

### 5.2 Digital Divide
* Based on socioeconomic and geographic demographics
* In some countries
  * Computers are not common in rural areas
  * Only small number of websites
  * Internet used to protect government
  * High level of surveillance to protect government

5.2 Actions:
* Someone can empower themselves in a digital world by providing help on forums or even creating websites for people that aren't familiar with technology.
* Someone that is empowered can help someone that is not empowered by making a website for a club that isn't familiar with technology. Make a Del Norte website for a Del Norte club.
* Red tape blocking is not empowerment as it hinders one's ability to utilize technology to the fullest. There is red tape blocking at Del Norte in the form of their blocker where some websites cannot be accessed without a vpn. In order to run a deployed website, one has to use a vpn.


## Notes 5.3, 5.4, and actions
### 5.3 Computing Bias

- There is a lot of bias within computing, mainly within explicit and implicit data. Explicit data would be a streaming site, (my own example being Amazon Prime), with your name and information, while implicit data could be what movies/shows you see. 

- Prime Video itself can also be biased, as it can redirect you to certain shows that you want to actually see, rather than boring movies, according to your recent searches. This can be something like Youtube Kids.

- Computing bias can be good in figuring out trend within an audience and playing off of those to streamline usage.

5.3 Actions:

- The owner of the computer probably does not think this was intentional because if it were, it would be excluding and the designer of the program would have nothing to gain from excluding people of darker skin color.

- This probably happened because the creater of this tracker only tested on people with light skin and not with people of dark skin

- This is harmful for the person of darker skin but it probably was not intended to be harmful or exclude people of color.

- THis should be corrected so everyone no matter the color of the skin can enjoy the tracker.

- In order to produce a better outcome, crowdsourcing should be used to ensure that there is as little bias as possible within the program. 


### 5.4 Crowdsourcing

- Crowdsourcing is basically using a large population to market a certain idea or product. These things could be used in collaboration with others as well, examples being spotify. GoFundMe is also an example of crowd sourcing as it is a way to get money by collaborating with others.

- Wikipedia is a good example of crowdsourcing
  - Users from all over the world can input the knowledge that they have on a topic.
  - Is also verified by people that are experts in the field
 
- Good way to get data from a variety of people
  - Can get data through API's like RapidAPI or even GitHub
 
5.4 Actions:

- A crowdsource idea for our 150 princples students could be a poll asking how everyone felt about taking the class this year. It could be intiated in our environment by sending the poll through the announcements slack channels so it reaches all students indiscriminately.

- Del Norte crowdsourcing could be a survey on how everyone feels about homeroom and if it is neccessary. Our final project could definitely be better with crowdsourcing as we can get everyone's input on the cleanliness and layout of the project and see if it is too difficult or not to navigate around it.