{% include navbar.html %}

## Notes 5.3, 5.4, and actions
### 5.3 Computing Bias

- There is a lot of bias within computing, mainly within explicit and implicit data. Explicit data would be a streaming site, (my own example being Amazon Prime), with your name and information, while implicit data could be what movies/shows you see. 

- Prime Video itself can also be biased, as it can redirect you to certain shows that you want to actually see, rather than boring movies, according to your recent searches. This can be something like Youtube Kids.

- Computing bias can be good in figuring out trend within an audience and playing off of those to streamline usage.

5.3 Actions:

- The owner of the computer probably does not think this was intentional because if it were, it would be excluding and the designer of the program would have nothing to gain from excluding people of darker skin color.

- This probably happened because the creater of this tracker only tested on people with light skin and not with people of dark skin

- This is harmful for the person of darker skin but it probably was not intended to be harmful or exclude people of color.

- THis should be corrected so everyone no matter the color of the skin can enjoy the tracker.

- In order to produce a better outcome, crowdsourcing should be used to ensure that there is as little bias as possible within the program. 


### 5.4 Crowdsourcing

- Crowdsourcing is basically using a large population to market a certain idea or product. These things could be used in collaboration with others as well, examples being spotify. GoFundMe is also an example of crowd sourcing as it is a way to get money by collaborating with others. 